README.md, before:

# python-opsi

This is the Python library behind the client management-tool [opsi](http://www.opsi.org/).


## License

This library is released under the AGPLv3 and the copyright belongs to
uib GmbH if this is not noted otherwise in the file itself.


## Documentation

You can use [Sphinx](http://sphinx-doc.org/) to build the documentation.
If you are looking for information on how to setup or configure an opsi
system please get the _getting started_ from opsi.org.

### Building the documentation

First we create the API documentation from the Python files:
``sphinx-apidoc --separate --output-dir=doc/src OPSI/``

After that we can build the documentation:
``sphinx-build -b html -d doc/_build/doctrees doc/src/ doc/html/``


After that you will find the documentation in the folder ``doc/html``.

## Requirements

Opsi relies on a mix of Python-libraries and system tools that need to
be installed.

The dependencies for your distribution can either be found in
`debian/control` or `rpm/python-opsi.spec`.
Please use your distributions recommended tool for the installation of
these.

### Installing on Ubuntu

Installing the depedencies via apt-get:
``apt-get install lsb-release python-twisted-web python-twisted-conch python-magic python-crypto python-ldap python-newt python-pam python-openssl python-mysqldb python-sqlalchemy iproute duplicity python-m2crypto lshw python-dev python-ldaptor``


For installing further depedencies on your system we also recommend to
install the header files for Python, librsync and to test the
SQLite-backend we also need apsw.

This can be done with:
``apt-get install build-essential python-dev librsync-dev python-apsw``


### Install via pip

It is possible to use `pip` to install most of the requirements - some
requirements are for other programs that can not be installed via pip.

``pip install -r requirements.txt``


## Building

Packages can be build for distributions that use either Debian or RPM
packages.
Please install the necessary build requirements from either `debian/control` or
`rpm/python-opsi.spec` before you try to build an package.

### On Debian-based systems

For building on a Debian-based system you can use the following command:
``dpkg-buildpackage -us -uc``

### On RPM-based systems

For building on a RPM-based system you can use the following command:
``rpmbuild -ba rpm/python-opsi.spec``


## Testing

Tests can be found in the `tests` folder. We use [pytest](http://pytest.org/) for our tests.

### Installing Requirements

Requirements for the tests can be found in ``requirements-qa.txt``.
They can be installed with the following command:
``pip install -r requirements-qa.txt``


### Running

Tests can then be run with:
``./run_tests.sh``

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome.

If you find any security problem please inform us (info@uib.de) before disclosing the security vulnerability in public.

### Translation

Translations are made via [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/opsi-org/opsiorg/) and the corresponding resource is located [here](https://www.transifex.com/opsi-org/opsiorg/python-opsi/).

### Tests

Please provide tests or a guide on how to test with your contributions.
After applying your code changes all tests must pass.

### Coding Style

Indentation should be done with hard tabs.

Code should be written in `camelCase`.
For backend methods that can be executed via a call to the webservice
please use stick to the use of camelCase but seperate the object type
and the method name with an underscore like this:

* `backend_info`
* `configState_getHashes`


Besides this please follow
[PEP 008](http://legacy.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/).


#### Automated Quality Checks

There is a script that runs ``pylint``, ``flake8`` and all the tests.
If you want to use it please install the requirements for it first:
``pip install -r requirements-qa.txt``


After that you can execute the script:
``./run_qa.sh``

The script will not display any problems reported by `pylint` or
`pep8` but instead creates the files `pylint.txt` and `pep8.txt`.

It will also run all tests and create a coverage from those tests as
`coverage.xml`.

### Documentation

Documentation should be provided for any non-intuitive or complex part.
Please provide the documentation either directly as Python docstrings or
provide it in the form of documents inside the ``doc`` folder.
The documentation should be integrated into the documentation that is
built with Sphinx.

Commit message:

The check is not automated.

README.md, after:

# python-opsi

This is the Python library behind the client management-tool [opsi](http://www.opsi.org/).


## License

This library is released under the AGPLv3 and the copyright belongs to
uib GmbH if this is not noted otherwise in the file itself.


## Documentation

You can use [Sphinx](http://sphinx-doc.org/) to build the documentation.
If you are looking for information on how to setup or configure an opsi
system please get the _getting started_ from opsi.org.

### Building the documentation

First we create the API documentation from the Python files:
``sphinx-apidoc --separate --output-dir=doc/src OPSI/``

After that we can build the documentation:
``sphinx-build -b html -d doc/_build/doctrees doc/src/ doc/html/``


After that you will find the documentation in the folder ``doc/html``.

## Requirements

Opsi relies on a mix of Python-libraries and system tools that need to
be installed.

The dependencies for your distribution can either be found in
`debian/control` or `rpm/python-opsi.spec`.
Please use your distributions recommended tool for the installation of
these.

### Installing on Ubuntu

Installing the depedencies via apt-get:
``apt-get install lsb-release python-twisted-web python-twisted-conch python-magic python-crypto python-ldap python-newt python-pam python-openssl python-mysqldb python-sqlalchemy iproute duplicity python-m2crypto lshw python-dev python-ldaptor``


For installing further depedencies on your system we also recommend to
install the header files for Python, librsync and to test the
SQLite-backend we also need apsw.

This can be done with:
``apt-get install build-essential python-dev librsync-dev python-apsw``


### Install via pip

It is possible to use `pip` to install most of the requirements - some
requirements are for other programs that can not be installed via pip.

``pip install -r requirements.txt``


## Building

Packages can be build for distributions that use either Debian or RPM
packages.
Please install the necessary build requirements from either `debian/control` or
`rpm/python-opsi.spec` before you try to build an package.

### On Debian-based systems

For building on a Debian-based system you can use the following command:
``dpkg-buildpackage -us -uc``

### On RPM-based systems

For building on a RPM-based system you can use the following command:
``rpmbuild -ba rpm/python-opsi.spec``


## Testing

Tests can be found in the `tests` folder. We use [pytest](http://pytest.org/) for our tests.

### Installing Requirements

Requirements for the tests can be found in ``requirements-qa.txt``.
They can be installed with the following command:
``pip install -r requirements-qa.txt``


### Running

Tests can then be run with:
``./run_tests.sh``

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome.

If you find any security problem please inform us (info@uib.de) before disclosing the security vulnerability in public.

### Translation

Translations are made via [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/opsi-org/opsiorg/) and the corresponding resource is located [here](https://www.transifex.com/opsi-org/opsiorg/python-opsi/).

### Tests

Please provide tests or a guide on how to test with your contributions.
After applying your code changes all tests must pass.

### Coding Style

Indentation should be done with hard tabs.

Code should be written in `camelCase`.
For backend methods that can be executed via a call to the webservice
please use stick to the use of camelCase but seperate the object type
and the method name with an underscore like this:

* `backend_info`
* `configState_getHashes`


Besides this please follow
[PEP 008](http://legacy.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/).


#### Semi-Automated Quality Checks

There is a script that runs ``pylint``, ``flake8`` and all the tests.
If you want to use it please install the requirements for it first:
``pip install -r requirements-qa.txt``


After that you can execute the script:
``./run_qa.sh``

The script will not display any problems reported by `pylint` or
`pep8` but instead creates the files `pylint.txt` and `pep8.txt`.
You then can check the corresponding output.

It will also run all tests and create a coverage from those tests as
`coverage.xml`.

### Documentation

Documentation should be provided for any non-intuitive or complex part.
Please provide the documentation either directly as Python docstrings or
provide it in the form of documents inside the ``doc`` folder.
The documentation should be integrated into the documentation that is
built with Sphinx.
